9 a.m. in Shanghai Shenzhen and here in
Hong Kong you're watching the China
show. I'm Ivon Man with Annabelle
Jewelers. We're counting down to the
open of markets in greater China and our
top stories this morning. [music] Asian
stocks defying a global risk selloff led
by cryptocurrencies. The yen holding
advances following [music] hints of a
December rate hike from the BOJ
governor.
>> Yeah, today's final JGB sale of the year
coming amid a global bond selloff with
the risk of sloppy auctions could add to
investor angst. Also ahead, China Vanka
asking some bone holders to wait [music]
a year for repayment as the distress
builder faces waning state support. And
Hong Kong authorities link [music] last
week's fire disaster to substandard
construction netting, saying [music]
contractors deliberately evaded
government testing.
[music]
We're taking a quick look at the market
action this Tuesday morning and I think
it's kind of interesting. We seem to be
coming a little bit full circle here
because yesterday in the morning
session, it was really that that sort of
riskoff move was sparked by this
speculation of the BOJ looking to hike.
The attention very much focused on
cryptocurrencies going into the
afternoon. But as we come into Tuesday
morning, the attention is back again on
what's happening with with JGBs
essentially. You're seeing yields there
just moving fractionally higher. But a
lot of that attention is coming down to
that 10-year bond auction coming up
later. It is the last for the year. And
I love the way that Mark Crown from our
M live uh MI team puts it in a blog
post, but he's saying that the the
timing of this final sale of the year
reads like it's from the script of a
horror movie. Oh gosh,
>> that's how bad it is, just the timing of
it. But it's essentially landing in the
midst of a of a of a major G10 bond
selloff. So it could actually end up
becoming a global bond event as well.
there is going to be a global bond
event. So that's one of the main things
we're tracking in the session today. But
otherwise, you're actually seeing a
recovery of sorts across the board here.
The broader index is lifting up a
quarter of a percent and and you are
just seeing perhaps a bit of a better
mood than what we had yesterday in the
session. But let's shift now and take a
look at what we're expecting in terms of
of Golden Dragon index performance
overnight because yes, you saw some
upside moves, but one of the big
decliners and we will watch these names
with the Hong Kong Open, but was the EV
space in particular because you had
those those car sales figures
essentially seeing some weakness across
the board. It's not just a China story
actually when you took a look at the
Europe sales figures as well. Still good
numbers but not quite as strong as the
month prior either. So you did see again
some of those names particularly likes
of NEO for instance down around 6%. But
let's also take a look at setting up
into the morning session today. Again
you're seeing futures here pointing to
some modest moves to the upside. One of
the things we're going to be watching at
the open of course is China bunker as
well.
>> Yeah that's be interesting right?
They're saying wait one one year for for
things to kind of play through here.
We'll see if investors are going to be
enjoying that or liking that sort of
news. Uh given that there is still a lot
of uncertainty around the property
market. We're going to have Christy Hong
from BI talking about this and you know
she people are liking this sort of
crisis around Wanka to what happened
with Country Garden to what happened to
Everrand. She says maybe this could be
looking a little bit more dire than
those two previous sort of crises that
we've seen. Uh we'll ask her why in just
a bit but yes as you talked about at
least things are stabilizing right
because we started to see this kind of
cascading of dominoes when it comes to
risk assets. First it was really the BOJ
and what happened to JGB's and then
crypto right but now as you say that
bond auction in Japan could be quite
telling here today.
>> I think it's going to be a really big
one to watch but I think also that
crypto downturn we're going to continue
watching it really because it's
interesting I think we might not even
know the full extent of this because one
of the key metrics that traders are
looking at is liquidation data and
that's how they're assessing leverage in
the system but the exchanges might not
be fully transparent either on that
exact data. So, can you get the full
sense of exactly what's moving or
happening at the moment? But also, I
mean, it sort of points to that bigger
question.
>> Are we going to see a Santa Claus rally?
>> Yeah, we we thought that we could see a
bit of that. I think when we were coming
back and starting off the month in
December, almost basically retracing or
at least regaining some of the losses
that we saw in November when it came to
at least US stocks and the like and risk
assets. I think these wobbles that we're
seeing when it comes to JGBs, when it
comes to crypto are certainly going to
be something that we're on the investors
minds, but you got to take a look at
what's going to be happening, right? If
we continue to see that Fed rate cut
that's going to be continue to be priced
in, I don't think there's anything in in
the in the radar in the next maybe time
horizon to kind of change investors
minds about, you know, the the Fed's
going to have to cut this month as well.
So, that certainly is still, I think,
supporting the whole risk rally for now.
>> Yeah. And it's interesting as well cuz
we actually have the Fed chair JPAL just
speaking at the Hoover Institution. So
we'll get those lines to you as they
come. But let's also shift back again to
to one of our top stories this morning
and that is are we out of the woods for
crypto? Let's get more with our crypto
reporter Sua Gosh joining us. So Sua,
just talk us through market sentiment.
We can see we've sort of seem to have
just be trading fairly steady this
morning, but what are we expecting from
here?
>> Hi Annabel. Yeah, you were right. I mean
it's steady it's trading steady today.
uh recovered quite a bit from the
bloodbath that we saw yesterday uh in
the last 24 hours actually. Uh but the
mood is still quite fragile. Uh risk of
um as we started this uh month. Uh we
have seen one nearly $1 billion of
liquidations. 270,000
traders have been wiped out during these
liquidations in just the last 24 hours.
So uh mood is still quite uh uh bearish
and you know cautious. uh uh there is a
there is an index called free uh fear
and greed index and the index is
pointing at uh 23 which is which denotes
extreme fear in the market that also
shows the mood that I'm uh citing about
and and the and the other thing is uh
you know the liquidations we have seen
lot of traders leverage their long
positions and sit on uh stable coins
stable coins are cash are liquid that
also shows that people want to traders
want to sit on the sidelines and just
reflecting the bearish sentiment in the
market as of now.
>> Sua, what should we be watching out for?
I mean, I think we're off like 30% from
the October highs for for Bitcoin, for
example. What are the some of the key
levels and factors to watch out for now?
>> Indeed, we are. And uh Ivan, uh the key
levels for Bitcoin are around 85,500
in on the downside, the the key support
levels. And if you break that uh traders
are saying that it it could go down to
$82,000 uh dollars. Uh so you know you
can see that it's it's like it's like
small inches of downside risks that
people are traders are bracing in. Uh
still quite cautious and on the
sidelines on the on the upper side also
you traders are expecting just about
89,500 on the upside. Uh which again
shows uh the the mood is uh pretty much
uh you know cautious. Yeah.
Sua, thank you. Suvashi go there. Go
there, crypto reporter joining us uh
from Singapore with the latest. Of
course, we'll get more on the forces
driving the latest crypto crunch with
blockchain platform provider OSL group
joining us in the next hour. Gary 2 uh
in the 10:00 hour here. In the meantime,
let's get you caught up with what this
all means for markets as we countdown to
2025, the end of that. Let's bring in
Thomas to Fidelity's head of
Asia-Pacific Extraan ETF distribution.
And Tommy, it's always great to have you
back in the program uh in a new firm as
well. It's
>> been a while.
>> Uh welcome. And just tell us a bit more
about, you know, how are we looking at
for year end right now? We're seeing a
little bit of wobbles whether it's in,
you know, bond markets and crypto. Are
we still set up for a year-end rally?
>> Uh I I think I'm going to be a little
bit more of a Grinch on this one. It
does seem like there's there's a little
bit of rotation happening in terms of
profit taking, but um you know, most of
the moves in US equities have been
driven by earnings growth, right? So
it's not really been a valuation
blowout. So I think there's a little bit
of trimming happening um particularly in
some of the big riskon type of movers.
And then if you look at some of the se
sector flows from from the last month
you see a big shift in things like
healthcare industrials.
>> These are historically defensive names
but these are also kind of the one level
down AI play. So there's also that that
underlying theme that's still going on
>> but it's been a very good and unexpected
year I think. You know, if you look at
the start of 2025, a lot of concerns
about tariffs, inflation, rate hikes.
Now, it looks like the Fed's going to
cut again in December. Everyone [snorts]
feels relatively good, but I think maybe
some profit taking into end of the year.
>> How does that set us up then going into
2026? I mean, it seems like all of those
fears that we had going into 2025, maybe
you could just sort of kick into next
year to an extent.
>> Yeah. Well, I I think that the overall
theme is like set and forget doesn't
work anymore. So particularly for that
core US equity holdings still 70% of
your underlying index and so within that
you know how do you play around sectors
how do you look for income to diversify
you know I think the diversification is
is really going to be the main theme
again into 2026 it's a little bit boring
but you know you have earnings growth
which have been strong but earnings
projections are coming down a little bit
um and how do you diversify you either
play around in sectors or you look for
things like income and dividends and
that's been a big trend over the last
couple months particularly in the in the
active ETF space.
>> Yeah, tell us a bit more about the
active ETFs because it seems like the
landscape is kind of constantly
evolving, right, when it comes to what
you're seeing in Asia. Um, how does it
compare to maybe passive strategies?
>> So, it's primarily being led by the US
at the moment. It we're seeing very
early signs of shift to active ETFs in
in Asia. Um, but essentially, you know,
you're looking for an active type of
performance without the active fees.
It's basically what it boils [laughter]
down to. And because you have this huge
dispersion in terms of earnings growth,
uh sector performance, economic
performance, um the need to get active
has really come to the four for for a
lot of investors. Um and so they're
using an ETF rapper. That's that's all
it is really is. It's a it's a wrapper.
Um and the big trends as I mentioned
have been into things like income
options overlays, dividends, um these
kind of volatility mitig mitigation
strategies because again if you're just
holding a 70% um of your portfolio in
S&P 500, the dispersion is so much and
the volatility is so much and trading
around eats into your into into your
performance. So active ETFs have been
40% actually of the inflow into ETFs
this year in the US which is a huge
number. you mentioned AI and and the way
that people are looking at maybe
alternative routes for exposure to that
sector. What does that look like again
going into next year and and where are
the ways that people can can look to to
gain access essentially?
>> Yeah. So, it all started in
semiconductors, right? Everyone thought,
you know, AI, no one really knew what it
was, but you know, it's it's a big
thing. CEOs are talking about it and and
the obvious play was semiconductors in
terms of a sector, hardware, etc. Now
what we're starting to see is one level
down. Okay. So where are the
applications of AI? Where is it
productivity increasing and essentially
it's moved into different sectors like
healthcare and industrials. Uh and then
I think as we move into next year it's
it's things more like cyber security
innovation type strategies. Um but the
end at the end of the day this is still
a big underlying theme and you see a
proliferation of products um and and
we'll start to see a broading out
instead of just broad semiconductor
sector uh type of exposures but um it is
an underlying theme. I do think you'll
see a little bit of profit taking in
that theme into the end of the year but
it's it's still going to be a big topic
for next year.
>> What we were just talking about when it
comes to crypto I mean how are you
tracking the influence into Bitcoin ETFs
for example now it seems like there's
more of a preference with maybe gold
ETFs.
maybe
recovered when it comes to gold and
silver
non fiat sort of asset class.
>> I think if you're looking at
diversification, yes. I mean, recently
silver's also been and copper have been
have been uh seeing a lot of inflows and
a lot of strong performance. But I think
the Bitcoin play and the gold play play
are a little bit different. Um gold is
being driven more by institutional
investors uh and also sovereign wealth
funds. uh Bitcoin is being driven more
by retail investors and so we've seen
about 20 billion US dollars go into
Bitcoin uh ETFs this year and about five
billion has come out since the uh the
October 10th high. So that's that data
is about 3 days old so maybe we'll see a
little bit more but um I think the
question is being more asked like when
do I buy versus like do I need to get
out.
>> Uh but we're primarily talking to
institutional clients. It it at the
margin we're seeing a little bit of of
inflows from institutional clients but
it's still mostly a US retail play at
the moment. what what is their appetite
for it generally when you do talk to
them I mean even if it is sort of
incremental or small scale investments
>> with the institutional guys yeah the
question is really how do I size it in
my portfolio so
>> you know most of the usage of it on the
institutional level are in multiasset
portfolio so how do I put um fixed
income equity and some kind of
alternatives in my portfolio and Bitcoin
is a part of that most institutional
clients look at it like 2% but that's a
very rough uh rough number so it really
just depends on on the client type uh
and where actually they're sitting and
if regulation actually allows them to
buy spot Bitcoin ETFs.
>> All right, Tommy, we have more from
Tommy Tal there, head of ETF
distribution, APAC X Japan at Fidelity.
He is staying with us. We got an
important interview coming up as well
later on Bloomberg. We're going to hear
exclusively from Taiwan's foreign
minister Lein Shaolong with the island
at the center now [music] of a heated
diplomatic dispute between China and
Japan. But first, Bloomberg learns that
distress [music] builder China Vanka is
now asking some bond holders to wait a
year for repayment. We'll have an update
on the property crisis next [music] as
we countdown to the open of trade in
Shanghai, Shenzhen, Hong Kong. Futures
are looking like we'll see some modest
[music] upside at the open. This is the
China show.
>> [music]
>> what to watch in your agenda here today.
That John Lee briefing is happening just
a couple of moments and according to
local media, he is going to be updating
uh the media here when it comes to
investigations around last week's fire
disaster. So, that's going to be one
that we're going to bring to you the
latest there. We talked about Wanka and
property bonds as well. High yield
spreads in focus after Wanka uh is
seeking that one-year delay. We'll get
more details on that according to uh
Artisto. And of course in terms of
sectors, we talked about those EV sales
for November which did look a little bit
weak there. Airlines and crypto stocks
certainly going to be a focus given the
slump that we saw Bitcoin and Ether
overnight. Uh and Hibbore as well. We
did see quite a massive move there
yesterday. Okay. So certainly we'll see
what that means when it comes to uh Hong
Kong liquidity and currencies and how
that plays out.
>> Yeah, drop of 190 basis points
overnight. But uh you mentioned China
Vanka and as you said it is that request
to essentially have extra time 12 months
to to pay that December 15 bond or or
repay that note. But let's get more with
our team here because we've got China
credit reporter Trista Shinyugor joining
us plus Bloomberg intelligence analyst
Christy Hong joining us as well. But
Patrista, we'll start with you and
exactly
what this tells us. We had this
obviously expectations, but now it's
finally happened and and what do we
understand? Yeah, it definitely shower
is under severe liquidity strains now.
And I think the plan we are seeing about
the one-year delay is actually worse
than lots of you know investors
expectation and banker also have another
uh UN notes um in over 3 billion yen um
you know coming during late December. So
right now investors are expecting that
UNO will probably see the same treatment
and you know in overall uh bank has you
know more than 13 billion UNO coming by
due by the end of next June. So uh
investors are wondering whether uh what
happened will uh to other as well. Yeah
>> Christie you talked about in your latest
reaction piece I mean it's a one-year
delay and you're saying the impact from
this could be even greater than what we
saw with Everrand and Country Garden.
Why?
>> Right. So from an a housing sentiment
standpoint, I think incrementally
speaking, this is less big of a shock
than ever grand and country garden when
it happened. But the significance here
is that banker is a stay back developer.
So I think with its fail failure to pay
[clears throat] its bond payment I think
the significance here is that investors
will start to worry you know how safe
are they back developer including local
government owned developers or centrally
owned developer how should we perceive
them and I think that would change the
perception of home buyers are they still
confident in buying pre-sold homes from
stateowned developers so so far in this
year today stay developers they the
sales are down 9%. Versus private
developers, they're down 29%. So
throughout the crisis, state own
developers, they're relatively unscathed
and contagion has been contained in the
private developer space. But I think
with what happened to Vanker, which is,
you know, which has a larger shareholder
from um Shenzhen Metro, which is a
stateowned entity, I think this is going
to be a tipping point for the market.
How does that then also play into to
what happens next? If you have that fear
that starts to spread and that risk of
contagion, what are the next things that
you actually watch out for?
>> Yeah, so next we Vango will hold a
meetings with bond holder try to see
their support for the no uh you know
delays. So we will definitely watch
closely about how much support they can
get. If they cannot get enough support,
it will be a default. And also, you
know, I think offshore bond holders are
also watching closely on this because,
you know, offshore they have, you know,
over $1.3 billion notes. So, they are
watching closely about what's happening
onshore and then how this going to
impact them as well.
>> What are what are people telling you
about this right now? I mean, people are
saying they're liking this to what
country garden to like Everrand in terms
of eventual recoveries. What sort of
scenarios are they mapping out now? I
think right now the pricing already you
know pricing about the recovery rate
right um and then I think investor are
definitely as Christie said trying to
reprocess what's the government stance
on this property crisis and I think
right now it's actually banker maybe on
their own um to deal with this debt
issue because previously always relied
on its largest shareholder Shenzhen
Metro and also the government support
but right now is actually the moment
people need to think about how they
going to repay those stab and then
amongst All of this we've had China
telling stats providers to withhold key
data on home sales.
How does that also add to the level of
angst do you think? And why exactly is
that happening?
>> Right. So it was a big surprise
yesterday because the two private data
providers have been consistently
releasing this data end of every month
and now that it seems to be that there's
more intervention from the government to
try and control the narrative and shield
home buyer confidence and I think from
here you would possibly see more
government actions to try and mitigate
the impact on Wanker's um debt crisis on
the overall home sales market. But as I
said before, there's limited ammunition
in the policy toolbox. Um, mortgage rate
and down payment ratios are already at
record low and also you are seeing home
purchase restrictions. They're already
relaxed in most of the cities except a
few. So I think what we can do from here
is more limited.
>> What what are your models and the like
telling you about what November's data
is going to look like that?
>> Right. So November data um what we had
predicted earlier is an over 30% decline
year-over-year because last year um same
time last year we had a high base from
aggressive stimulus policy if you
remember and the data did came out and
we had access to that and the number
came up to be a 36% year-over-year
decline. We accept we expect December to
continue to have that kind of steep
decline which is important because year
end sales push is very important for
developers to try and catch up um at the
end of the year.
>> Christy, thank you. Christy Hung there
from our Bloomberg intelligence team.
Also thanks to Christy Shinu, our China
credit reporter on the latest when it
comes to China Wanka. We're watching of
course how Wanka is going to be how the
bonds are going to price and the like
here as well. But we have seen of course
some suspensions here uh all week. But
here the stock at least we are seeing uh
up about 9/10 of 1%. So maybe investors
are at least reassured that there is at
least a time frame here. They're talking
about a 12-month extension to pay the
bond. But we'll see how the rest of the
market fares for that here as well.
Pre-market is looking like this here
right now for your Hong Kong markets.
And obviously we're focusing on EVs the
like given some of the softer numbers
that we got in November in terms of auto
sales. Hangen [music] though is seeing
that recovery. We're up 610 of 1% here.
Dollar China 707 levels. This is
Bloomberg.
[music]
Less than 5 minutes to the open this
morning. You can see here futures are
looking like we're going to see some
modest upside at the open. and it sort
of tracks what you've got for the
broader gauge this morning because you
are just seeing a bit of a recovery of
sorts yesterday. Lots of tensions around
or or anxieties being fueled firstly by
by these expectations of the BOJ and
their hiking path. But then in addition
to that, you had the crypto sell off in
the afternoon that again spooked
investors.
>> Yep. In terms of analyst actions, the EV
sort of story continues on here. You are
seeing price targets being cut a little
bit when it comes to some of these uh EV
makers. So, NEO eight shares maintain a
buy at Guang Securities, but that price
target has been cut as well. Same goes
to when it comes to NEO for the city
there and Lee Auto also price target cut
to 105 from Goldman Sachs here as well.
Uh, in terms of softs to watch, it is
about the Macau casinos. That's
something worth watching here today
given the numbers were actually pretty
good, right? And usually November is a
seasonally slower month there for some
of these casino operators. But you got
to add some of the freebies, the perks,
the concerts, and really cut drew a lot
of people to come and spend there as
well. Even some of the big VIPs [music]
coming back here as well. There you go.
Wind Macau up more than 1%. The Open is
next. [music] This is Bloomberg.
Welcome back. You're watching the China
show this morning and we are counting
down to the opener markets. We're
setting up for I'm going to say fairly
flat open today, but we [music] do have
again Asian equities just shifting a
little bit higher as we get into Tuesday
trading. Lots of things to track in
China in particular [music] because
you've got China bunker of course that's
going to be top of mind for investors.
They've essentially delayed uh or
looking to delay their bond repayments.
But then in addition [music] to that,
you've got what's happening in the EV
space in China and you had a lot of
those stocks under pressure in the US
overnight.
>> Yeah, a bit shaky there when it comes to
the ADRs. we have some price targets and
that have been cut from some of the sell
side here. So certainly that's one to
watch. When it [music] comes to the EV
outlook uh in China there now that we
start to talk about consumption
subsidies [music] and the effects are
starting to fade uh for the fourth
quarter that certainly has been
reflected in some of the numbers that
we've seen uh for November so far. You
take a look when it comes to what we're
seeing uh and we're slightly in the
decline here right now when it comes to
onore markets here. Obviously we're ke
to watch what copper prices are doing
after the record sort of levels that we
saw on the LME contracts as well. Silver
continues to pull records there. Uh we
are seeing a little bit of a flatness
there when it comes to copper prices,
but certainly it seems like we are
seeing when it comes to stocks a little
bit under pressure here today. Um we'll
focus a little bit more on you know
we're really the outlook as well. Stan
chart upgrading their China outlook for
2026 also here. So uh there is kind of
signs we have so gen coming through way
with her report saying we're you know
China is slowly emerging from that
deflation trap. We're going to ask them
what what parts of the economy are they
seeing that the boards in terms of what
we're seeing in Hong Kong today. So we
are seeing a pretty you know rebound but
I can I can say it's a bit of a
tentative one after that sell off that
we saw on Monday right where you know
cryptocurrencies basically were were
plummeting five six%. We take a look at
how Bitcoin prices are. We stabilize
now, but certainly there was sort of a
domino effect that started from the BOJ,
I have to say, with you know, UAE with
one of the clearest signals yet that
they're ready to hike rates uh this
month. That certainly sent a whole kind
of global bond selloff here from JGBs
all the way to treasuries overnight.
That seems to be at least looking a
little bit better here now on this
Tuesday morning. Hangen Tech were up
about fourth of 1% there right now. I
really like the likes of Alibaba. Look
at that. We're up 2% for Baba here right
now. Mtoan's heading the opposite
direction. We're down to 1%. So,
extending those losses after those
earnings that came out uh late last week
as well. Uh in terms of what we saw with
the EV side of things, so we we talked
about those November sales data that we
got. So, BYD sales were the key one
there. Dropped for a third straight
month as well. Interesting enough,
you're seeing the stock actually up uh
more than one and a half% here this
morning. Um but, you know, it was kind
of sluggish month-on-month sales numbers
for the month as well. So analysts are
seeing signs of weakening of demand
there weighing on 2026 here. Uh but city
was saying overseas sales momentum for
BYD at least did beat estimates. Perhaps
that's why you're seeing it buck against
the trend here amongst the EV space
there. In terms of WCO we talked about
they're waiting one year to be whole.
That's what we hear from our sources
here on this 12-month extension to pay
that bond. It seems like investors in
some way getting a bit more clarity. The
stock is up some 1%.
>> Yeah, that's right. But you mentioned
Stanart turning more bullish on China.
Actually JP Morgan is another again that
sort of revised their their forecast and
their allocation to mainland equities.
But we heard from the co-head of global
EM markets equity strategy. That's Raja
Bachra speaking yesterday with Hassender
Amen. Take a listen.
>> Definitely from here we will be looking
into spaces like uh tech. We will be
looking in spaces like consumer
discretionary, consumer staples,
communication services, materials
because if anti-involution is a reality
over next 5 to 10 years which will be
supporting not just margins of my end
buyer but also will be supportive
because your capacity and supplies will
not be a big headwinds to you. So that
brings even material in place. So you
can see a mix of old and new economy uh
that supports you.
Still with us is Tommy Ta, head of ETF
distribution for APAC X Japan at
Fidelity. Uh we haven't really talked
about your outlook for the region here
so far, but certainly it seems like know
this is one of the few years that we've
seen actually China stocks outperform
the likes of the S&P. You get out of
Europe into the mix as well. Do you
think that can continue for next year?
>> Yes, it's been a while. We've been
waiting [laughter] for a while. Um you
know, it all started in January with
this kind of deepseek movement. And I
guess the question is really is like is
this being driven by optimism of the
underlying economy growing? I I don't
really think so yet and I think you can
see that when you look actually look at
the performance of the China tech names
versus the real economy names in the
Footsier 50 and CSI 300. So I think this
is a little bit of a catch-up in terms
of valuations plus um foreign investors
closing underweights. I think this is
still very much a beta passive story at
the moment and then I think next year we
start to look into various sectors
single company names where where are the
where are the actual transitions around
this tech trade going to happen. Um, so
I don't think it's really a real economy
story quite yet. Uh, we can see that in
some of the data that's come through
that's been a little bit disappointing,
but the PBSD PBOC still has some some
ammunition. So I think I think to to
answer your question, I do think the
performance can can continue into next
year. Um, particularly as as some of the
underlying data comes through a little
bit more positive than what what we've
been seeing over the last 6 months.
>> So it is a a beta play as you say. Do
you think it's the same sectors that
have stood out for this year that that
trend also extends into next?
>> I think you will start to see a little
bit of rotation into some of the onshore
names which are more liquidity sensitive
to what the PBOC are doing. Um but again
at the moment this is kind of a
valuation catchup between US tech and
China tech and I think that will
probably be the underlying theme but but
as we move into the second half of next
year and the data starts to get a little
bit more positive then you see some
shifts into the the traditional old
economy type sectors.
>> Yeah. You mentioned about that whole EM
rotation. So outside of China where else
are you seeing the most influence here
right now?
>> So the interesting thing is it's very
much broad EM. Um, and uh, November
actually was the best month all year for
EM inflows for for ETFs.
>> And I think this is basically we're
seeing a shift, I think temporary, but I
think we're seeing a shift from EMX
China, which was the big trade over the
last three years,
>> selling in EMX China, actually buying
broad EM. And I think the reason for
this is because foreign investors
realize they need to have more exposure
to China as the market cap goes up, but
they don't really know what to buy. So
they probably they buy broad EM which
the the constituents in terms of China
are very broad across across technology
and uh some of the A shares.
>> What happens with other EM like Korea
for instance that that's another market
that's really stood out.
>> Yeah. So I I was uh I was away for like
3 to four months and I came back and I
realized Korea is up year to date almost
60%. Um and again I think this is coming
from a very low base of where valuations
were and where earnings expectations
were. um and it is still a big part of
the the EM uh index, right? So, you're
you're starting to see a little bit of
rotation, I think, away from India,
which is still the longer term trend
into places like China, into places like
South Korea, and Taiwan is kind of
continuing to chug along. I mean, that's
been performing very well for a long
time. So, I think that the South Korea
trade is a valuation catchup plus
rotation away from India for short term.
This week it's been about I want to talk
about Japan too which has also has done
well. But this week it's really been
about the market really recalibrating
around the BOJ ready to hike again.
>> Yeah.
>> What what do you think how that's going
to play out across asset class and
[laughter] for Japan?
>> Yeah, there's a lot of like once bit and
twice shy situation with the BOJ because
they have talked about intervention
becoming more hawkish for for quite some
time now. They haven't really done it
but if you look at the under underlying
inflation numbers they have been pretty
solid. Um and wage growth has been very
solid as well. And so the expectation
for rate hike now in December is is
around 80%. So we'll probably get a rate
hike plus you have the Fed probably
going to cut in December. So interest
rate uh convergent.
>> Um but I think it's more about the
rhetoric of what Waiter comes out with
in a couple weeks even if they do cut
like are they going to are they going to
move to a cutting sorry a hiking cycle
not a cutting cycle. um or are they just
kind of one and done and we'll see how
the data comes because that's that's
been very much the rhetoric over the
last couple years. Uh that obviously has
an impact on Nikk and broader equity
markets. Interesting this year that
Japanese equities are not being driven
by JPY depreciation.
>> Yeah.
>> Um so it is a much more kind of real
story.
>> Uh and you can see that when you look at
Nikk versus Topics performance because
Topics has always been the driver
because it's more sensitive to JPY.
>> JPY has done nothing this year. Um, I
still think we'll probably move to more
into the 140 zone next year,
>> but a lot of it will depend obviously on
what the rhetoric is uh in a couple
weeks from waiter.
>> It really hasn't the yen hasn't really
been to that go-to place when it comes
to to hedging. Is it still sort of that
haven status? Can it still maintain
that? I don't think we'll know until we
get a sizable selloff in in US equities
because the interesting thing is and and
you can see this when you look at gold
is you know historically gold has
actually gone down when US equities go
down because US dollar is the is the
safe haven hedge I don't think that's
the case anymore so gold is continuing
to go up when US equities go down and so
what's the actual safe haven currency in
the G10 it could be yen but we don't
really we haven't really seen much of a
sell-off so I think if I think if waiter
uh hikes in a couple weeks, the Fed cut
in December and we get a little bit of a
pullback, you'll see again in in the
140s.
>> What do you think investors are are
missing or or what do you think is is
sort of that outside risk that you see
as well?
>> I think the outside risk is probably I
I'm not going to go into the AI bubble
story. I think that's kind of been
overplayed, but I think the the the risk
is still around inflation and also the
labor market in the US. um because
that's really what's driving uh strong
performance and earnings but earnings
the earnings picture can change very
very quickly and so if earnings growth
continues to move down valuations go up
and then you see more of a riskoff type
of market um I think that's probably the
main concern at the moment so things are
approximately okay but you know things
are priced very very nicely for for
moves higher
>> all right approximately okay I wonder
[laughter]
that's Thomas door there head of ETF
distribution APAC extra at Fidelity And
coming up we mentioned that soft gen
call upgrading their view on China's
economic growth next year seeing a less
drastic impact [music] from the Trump
tariffs as well be speaking with their
chief AP pack economist in the coming
hour. A lot more ahead. This is
Bloomberg.
>> [music]
>> Well, we're awaiting a briefing from
Chief Executive John Lee on this, but
authorities in Hong Kong at this point
say last week's deadly apartment block
fire was accelerated by construction
workers using cheap substandard netting
and evading government testing. Let's
bring in our China correspondent, Mim
Lo. So, so Mim, as we said, we might get
an update in the coming minutes from
from John Lee. But in terms of of what
we've understood so far on the materials
that were used to wrap the buildings,
what have we learned about the
compliance measures in place and exactly
what they were doing?
>> Yes. So, so the authorities gave a press
conference yesterday evening at about
5:00 p.m. and they said that out of the
20 samples of the netting that they had
collected at the site of the fire, seven
of them were not compliant. And they
found that the contractors had wrapped
the base of the buildings with compliant
materials and the higher floors, the
harder to reach areas had been wrapped
with non-compliant materials that is
about half the price of the compliant
ones. So just to give you a sense of
scale, the contractors had bought about
2,300 rolls of non-compliant materials
and just 115 rolls of the compliant
ones. So they they saved in total about
over 100,000 Hong Kong dollars at the
expense of many lives that are lost
because the death toll has now climbed
to 151. And the authorities have now
arrested 10 people on top of the
original three, accusing them of
manslaughter. They include contractors,
uh, middlemen, consultants. Some of them
are now out on bail, some are still in
custody, but yes, the investigation
still ongoing.
>> You mentioned about the death toll has
also climbed up. Is the search effort
completed now? Are we likely to see more
victims?
We could hear an update later perhaps
because yesterday evening the the
authorities said they had completed the
search of five uh of six out of the uh
sorry of five out of the seven
buildings. So there are two more
buildings that they were still
continuing to search. So the death toll
at that time stood at 151. Over a
hundred of those had been identified.
The remaining ones are still of
unconfirmed identities. And these
bodies, they are found in the corridors,
on the rooftops, in the apartments. And
there are still about 40 or so cases of
missing people. And the authorities said
they cannot rule out that they may not
be able to locate all of the bodies
because some of them may have been burnt
to ash. So obviously this would be
something that would be very challenging
for family members who are seeking
closure from this tragedy.
>> Yeah. And and one of the aspects which
we've discussed before is just how
regulators had issued repeated written
warnings to this contractor about the
the fire prevention measures they were
taking. What do we understand about
how they were continued to issues issue
these warnings but the contractor I
guess failed to heed them?
>> Yeah, we don't exactly have new details.
We already know that the Department of
Labor had visited the site 16 times and
issued multiple warning letters and yet
as you said it seemed like nothing was
changed. So on that front we are still
hoping to get more details. It also
emerged that residents had filed
complaints to the Department of Labor as
early as 2024 and the Department of
Labor did acknowledge that they had
dismissed some of the the warnings
before. Um and later on they said that
some of the materials were compliant and
they cite documents provided by the
contractors and obviously you know it is
sometimes possible for contractors to
use certificates that may not be the
most updated or they may not be actually
the same as the actual material being
used on the ground. So we're hoping for
more information there. But meanwhile
the authorities had halted 30 other
construction or renovation projects
around Hong Kong. 28 of those are linked
to the company involved in this fire,
Prestige Construction, and two others
are also affected because they have
found um cases of of non-compliant
materials. And also, interestingly,
we're getting local media reports saying
that they have contacted providers of
these netting and found that they're out
of stock after the fire. And just
walking around the city, I have noticed
a lot of buildings take down their
netting as well. And presumably they're
taking it down either because they are
being told to do so or they're doing so
preemptively ahead of more inspections.
>> Yeah, lots of question marks still to be
solved on that front in terms of the
materials that were being used. Well,
that's an update there on on really the
worst fire that Hong Kong has seen in
decades for the city. But that was our
China correspondent, Mim Lo. Uh, in some
other world news that we're tracking
this morning, a survey shows that
Chinese [music] export controls are
forcing European companies to rethink
how they operate. The poll, which
[music] was released by the EU Chamber
of Commerce, indicates that about a
third of European firms plan to shift
sourcing away from Beijing. One
respondent also said that China's curbs
[music] will result in additional costs
equivalent to around 20% of its global
gross revenue this year.
Russian President Vladimir Putin has
signed an order [music] allowing
visa-free entry for most Chinese
citizens. They're now able to visit
Russia for 30 days for [music] business
and tourism purposes. Some categories,
including journalists and students,
still do need visas. Uh Russia is also
[music] about to kick off the its first
sale of yuan denominated sovereign bonds
as [music] ties between the two
countries deepen.
We're watching shares of Chinese
airlines this morning. That's after CCTV
[music]
reported that over 40% of planned
flights from China to Japan in December
have [music] been cancelled. According
to the state broadcaster, that totals
over 9 1,900 flights as sources earlier
told us that Beijing had instructed
Chinese airlines to reduce [music] the
number of flights to Japan through March
2026.
And later on, we'll be hearing
exclusively from Taiwan's foreign
[music] minister, Lin Jaalong, with the
island at the center of a heated
diplomatic dispute between [music] China
and Japan. Our very own Stephen Engel is
on the ground there speaking with the
minister. Here's a look at how Asian
markets are doing as [music] we go into
that lunch break as well. We are seeing
stocks edging higher here today. So, a
bit of recovery from what we saw on
Monday. Cosby now inching close to that
[music] 4,000 level here. Taiwan also
seeing gains of more than 1%. And we're
200 points up for the hang [music] here.
This is Bloomberg.
[music]
>> Let's take you to live pictures in Hong
Kong right now. The chief executive John
Lee is currently speaking to the media
ahead of an executive council meeting.
Let's listen in.
>> Their lives
miracles happen.
And I would like to give my respect to
all five fighters.
I express my deep gratitude to them. I
would also like to thank all personnels
in different positions.
Healthcare
staff.
They made every effort to save the
victims.
Police officers were at the scene to
maintain order and to support the
firefighting
rescue operations. They also collected
evidence and helped with identification
of bodies.
A lot of frontline civil servants also
worked hard. I also thank the
enthusiastic members of the public.
Different people
have displayed
the spirit that we are all one family
and that we selflessly sacrifice
ourselves and we were able to unite
ourselves. The fire has already claimed
151 lives. 79 were injured. Among them,
40 are still hospitalized.
The police have already
ruled out a number of cases that are
unaccounted for. They are now following
up on 30 missing person cases
with deep sorrow.
We in the past few days experienced pain
and
the flags in a lot [clears throat] of
government buildings were flying at half
mast and we have set up condolence
points in 18 districts in Hong Kong.
Many citizens have been to Taipo to lay
flowers and mourn for victims. The
government is making every effort to
support the affected residents to help
them weather the difficult times. The
government has opened up
centers to rehouse the affected
residents from Wangok court.
2500 affected residents are rehoused at
transitional housing units. units
managed by the housing authority as well
as youth hosts and hotels. About 20
affected residents are still at
temporary shelters. We have activated
the one social worker per household
scheme to support the affected
residents. Also, two to three civil
servants will help each household to
provide support to ensure that each
household will get dedicated support. We
would like to help affected residents
with their emotions and we would do we
would also provide logistic support.
I visited some of the affected residents
at the transitional housing units. They
are happy with the supplies and services
as well as support provided the
government. I heard that there are
fraudulent SMS messages asking affected
residents or other people to provide
information of their banking account. I
told them to reach out to the social
workers or those civil servants who are
offering support to them. I condemn the
despicable acts of these scammers. In
terms of financial relief for each
household, we are providing 10,000
emergency cash subsidy to the affected
starting from this week.
We are distributing $50,000 of living
allowance to each affected household for
household with deceased. We are
providing $200,000
of token of solidarity. We are also
providing 50 to $100,000 to those
hospitalized, $20,000 of subsidy for
students as well as foreign domestic
helpers who survive. The government will
tide over the difficult times with them.
The fire is ruthless, but there is love
in the community. Universities in Hong
Kong as well as different organizations
are offering the helping hand to provide
support to affected residents. The
government set up the dedicated fund and
the startup capital is $300 million is
the support fund for Wang for court in
Taipo. We also received large amounts of
donations from from mainland and the
accumulated fund and donations received
reach 1.6 6 billion.
They represent the love and aspirations
of many. The government will make sure
that all the donations will be spent on
helping the affected residents to
rebuild their lives and to weather the
difficult times. I earlier announced the
setting up of three working groups and
task forces. One of the task forces is
making every effort to make sure that we
can hold the responsible people
accountable.
There is an inter departmental
investigation
task force led by the FSD. It is
investigating the cause of the fire. The
police have arrested 13 people on
suspicion of manslaughter. The ICAC
has arrested 12 people on suspicion of
corruption
in connection to the maintenance works.
People make premeditated eggs and mix
the compliant protective netting with
the non-compliant one. Also, a large
amount of styrofoam was used in the
maintenance works and it is a crucial
reason for the rapid spread of fire.
I hope that the police as well as the
ICAC would work together on the joint
investigation so that we can hold the
people accountable as soon as possible.
We will make sure that the those who are
responsible will have to bear the legal
responsibility.
I ask for a thorough investigation and
we should turn our anger and sorrow into
power of reform.
We have to hold those responsible
accountable. We have to expose the
truth. We have to do everyone justice.
We have to make sure that the deceased
can rest in peace and that we can give a
peace of mind to those who survive.
This fire reflects that there are gross
negligences in different parts of the
maintenance works.
Mistakes were made and we need a
systemic reform.
Issues include the following. First,
standards were not met and we have to
make sure that there is a good
regulatory system. Second, we have to
make sure if there were transfer of
benefits as well as conflict of
interests or whether there were any
collusions. Third
on building maintenance works, we have
to review whether the list of compliant
safety materials is comprehensive
and whether the tests are effective.
Fourth, we have to review the roles of
different regulatory bodies including
the government departments as well as
the authorized professionals. Fifth,
building maintenance works may involve
bid rigging or corruption.
Sixth,
five, safety systems should be equipped
in every building and we have to look at
who are liable for this. Lastly, we have
to second we have to look at
the responsibilities of different people
and eighth we have to look at the level
of penalty whether they are sufficient
as we investigate the cost of fire in
full steam in order to prevent
the same tragedy from happening. I will
set up an independent commission of
inquiry to be chaired by a judge to
investigate the cost of the rapid spread
of fire. I will reach out to the
judiciary and invite a judge to chair
the independent commission of inquiry to
study the detailed scope of work of the
commission. Also, I will make sure that
the commission will work effectively and
efficiently. For example, I will see
what kind of information the commission
will need in order to exercise their
duty.
I hope that we can give them as much
support as possible so that they can
complete the investigation in time and
that they can submit the report to the
chief executive to help with the reform
by the government. Meanwhile, we will
continue to make every effort with the
relief work. We will not give up on any
household. We will help all affected
residents to rebuild their lives and
homes so that they can get back to
normal life as soon as possible. As we
are at the critical juncture of helping
the affected to rebuild their lives, we
have to have the vision and we have to
make sure that the community can operate
steadily. I have already made the
decision. The election was originally
scheduled for the 7th of December and it
will be conducted
as planned.
I have directed government personnel to
help the injured as well as the affected
residents. I set up the support fund and
I encourage donations for the affected
and I directed the personnel to help
with the affected household and I
directed the effort to make a
comprehensive and thorough
investigation. Next step in order to
prevent the same kind of tragedy from
happening. I think we need reform. I
thought about partners we need to take
forward the reform and the partners I
need would definitely be legislative
counselors. They have all experienced
the fight. They understand the pain.
They will work with the government to
implement the reform together. They will
help enact legislations to implement the
reform.
It is an important step for us to elect
capable legislative counselors with
aspirations in order for us to achieve
the goal. We should not stop. We have to
continue to move forward in order to
turn the anger into power and energy.
Conducting the election as planned is a
respect to the spirit of our rule of
law.
We have set a date for the election and
the election has to be conducted as
scheduled and as planned.
Holding the election as planned
helps stabilize the community and help
us with the relief work to rebuild the
community.
Electing legislative counselors would
help us carry out the important work
that we need and to help us review the
legal system.
A lot of the work has to be done with
the approval of funding by the
legislative council. I think this is a
responsible attitude that we should
adopt the newly elected legislative
councilors after experiencing the pain
before they get into the leo for them.
It would be an important mission. The
new ledge co will
with
the importance of reform in mind will be
committed to their work. This fire
makes us
reflect on our policies and our existing
system. I hope the newly elected
legislative councilors will work in
their own positions and work with the
government to take forward the reform.
We have lost many things in a disaster.
We need to continue to advance. We need
to continue to move forward.
Difficulties will only make us stronger.
Challenges won't stand in our way. They
will keep us even more united. We must
stay united
and we must rise from sorrow. We need to
stand together. We need to show the
solidarity of Hong Kong. We need to
build a better Hong Kong in the future.
Thank you.
The floor is now open for questions.
Please raise your hand and identify your
media element and call upon your limit
to two questions.
The gentleman on the left.
Good morning, Chief Executive. I'm from
the RTHK.
Director Xiaom
visited Shenzhen to listen to your
report. What does it mean?
Did you yourself take part in it?
Were elections and the fire covered?
What messages did director Zabalong
bring to citizens in Hong Kong? The
election will be held as scheduled.
Members of the public are very busy
supporting the relief efforts.
Will it make it difficult for you to
mobilize manpower of the civil service?
Are you going to meet any challenges
when it comes to manpower?
>> Thank you. This place claims a total of
151 lives.
This is of public concern in Hong Kong.
The central people's government and
President Cinping attached a lot of
importance to the blaze.
President Cinping also directed that all
our efforts would be made to help in the
relief efforts of Hong Kong.
Dr. Shaalong
fulfilled the instructions of President
in relation to relief efforts.
The relief teams headed by Mr. Nong was
sent to Hong Kong.
I'm very much grateful to the Central
People's Government.
I can completely feel the importance
attached by director to Hong Kong
when it comes to the supplies and
support of supplies
with the coordination of the Hong Kong
and Macau offices. Two batches of
supplies have arrived in Hong Kong
in our firefighting efforts
and in the identification of human
bodies, lighting system, drones
or even in the healthcare aspect,
medical consumables were provided to
Hong Kong.
These include medical supplies, tools,
and so on.
These show that the central people's
government attaches a lot of important
to the relief efforts of Hong Kong. It
also shows their all our support.
I talked to directoralong.
He recognizes our efforts. He expressed
full support for our work. He will
continue to render support in our work.
When it comes to election,
I have explained in full to the public.
We are going to hold the election as
scheduled.
I have already explained the importance
of this. I will
advance reforms with my utmost devotion.
Legislators play a very key role. So we
need to return ambitious, capable
legislators to implement reforms
together with the government. This is
very important.
That's why we will
make an alla effort in our upcoming
election. However, relief efforts will
not will not be stopped. will continue
to render support to the affected.
We will only provide more support. There
won't be less support.
After we have finished the election, we
can devote all resources and energy to
help to help members of the public and
the affected.
So alongside members of the public,
legislators will also be involved.
We need the approval of the legislative
council when it comes to legal reforms,
funding approvals and so on. We have the
principle of
executive and legislature and
interaction. We need to prevent tragedy
from happening again. We need to build a
better Hong Kong. That's why we will
continue to hold the election. We won't
pause any relief efforts. We will only
move faster. Next question on the right,
the gentleman in light blue in the
second row.
Uh two questions from AFP. So, first can
you uh first confirm whether three
people including a student, a former
district counselor and a volunteer have
been arrested for this edition and if
so, what did they do that was sedicious?
Uh my second question is um over the
past few years you have spoken about
leading Hong Kong from chaos to order
and from order to prosperity and yet
this prosperous society allowed 151
people to burn to death. Can you tell us
why you deserve to keep your job?
>> Well, criminals commit offense must be
taken to justice. Law enforcement
agencies when they discover crimes,
whatever their nature are, then they
must be dealt with in accordance with
the law. Whoever they are, whatever
their background is, if their acts
contravene the law, law enforcement
agencies must take action and they have
a duty to do so. And I emphasize I would
not tolerate any crimes,
particular crimes that exploit
the tragedy that we have, we are facing
now. societies. Everybody in Hong Kong
are uniting to help those who suffer to
continue their living and face up to the
future. Anybody, anybody who dares
to sabotage this attempt,
this commitment of society,
we will do anything we can to ensure
that justice will be done.
Yes, it is a tragedy.
It is a big fire.
Yes, we need a reform.
Yes, we have identified failures in
different stages. That is exactly why we
we must act seriously to ensure that all
these loopholes are plucked
so that
those who are responsible will be
accountable.
The shortcomings will be addressed.
The bottlenecks
will be addressed and we will reform the
whole
building renovation system to ensure
that
such thing will not happen again.
Nobody of course will want fire to
happen. We'll do our best. It has been
the effort of the government of
everybody in society of everybody
involved in this area to do their best
but fire happens in different cities
despite different cities government and
community try their best to do it.
We will do our best to prevent it. But
exactly what the government must do now
to ensure that some system failure which
may have been accumulating over years.
We need to strengthen the system. We
need to reform it. We need to ensure
vested interest
will not be allowed to be a factor to
cause this tragedy.
There are a number of factors and I have
explained to you the different areas
that we must tackle, the different
issues that we have identified.
We work on each one of them, not a
single one of them, each and every one
of them. And we're willing to listen to
more views, opinions about what they
have discovered. This will be included
in the investigation and also included
in the review to be conducted.
I just want to ensure one other thing.
This is a time for everybody to unite
for a good purpose.
But for anybody who try to sabotage
the commitment of society,
I will do all I can to ensure justice is
done.
The lady in the last row in white.
Yes, the second one.
Good morning. I'm from Cable TV.
According to the latest investigation,
the non-compliant
protective net
could not be easily reached. Does that
mean these non-compliance net already
got the certificates and even with even
by passing the tests done by the
government they may not be 100%
compliant and
members of the public may have to
exercise self- discipline in order to
make sure that the maintenance works
could be carried out properly. Well,
does that mean there are loopholes to be
plugged? And for the commission of
inquiry, will the report on the
investigation findings be released and
made public? Also mentioned that the
election will be held as scheduled. How
come you do not invoke the relevant
legislations to postpone the election?
There is deep sorrow in the community
and have you considered the feelings of
the families of the deceased as you
decide to carry on with the election?
According to the investigation,
there are unscrupulous people who in a
premeditated manner mixed compliant and
non-compliant protective netting.
I believe that among all
>> we're going to leave these live pictures
there, but you were just hearing from
the Hong Kong chief executive John Lee
in this media briefing and really
talking uh you know talking about a
message of unity and extending his of
course support to the firefighters out
there but also sending out a big message
when it comes to the need for reform.
The government they says is setting up
an independent committee that's going to
be led by one judge to examine the cause
of this fatal fire. Also, we're hearing
a little bit more about uh the extent of
course the financial aid is going to go
as well. Let's bring in our
correspondent Milo with kind of the big
takeaways from John Lee. Yeah, I think
one of the big takeaways is yes, he is
going to set up the independent
commission of inquiry and this is among
the list of four demands that have been
started by the person who was allegedly
arrested based on local media for
starting an online petition. Among the
four demands is to start that
independent commission of inquiry. So
John Lee is saying that yes they will
have that commission started led by a
Hong Kong judge. He also talked about
the need for comprehensive reforms. You
talked about the need to look into
whether there is bid rigging, there is
corruption, also whether there is
transfer of benefits, conflict of
interest and also to look into whether
the list of compliant safety materials
is comprehensive enough, whether the
tests are effective um and really you
know a lot of changes that need to be
made and that is why he said that Hong
Kong needs to move forward. they are
going to keep that legislative counselor
elections unchanged because he says he
needs the help of these legisl
legislative counselors to make the
necessary changes to the law to ensure
that such a tragedy doesn't happen
again. He gave an update as well on the
number of arrests. So there are 13
people now arrested for manslaughter. In
addition, he said the anti-corruption
office had arrested 12 people on
corruption charges as well. And
interestingly during the Q&A um we know
that local media had reported that the
police the national security police had
arrested three people. Um one is a
volunteer the other is a former district
counselor Kenneth Chong and the third is
someone who started an online petition.
Um we were asking John Lee to confirm
whether the arrests have been made
because this was reported by local
media. He did not confirm that and
interestingly I think this was where he
spoke with the most conviction. his
voice became louder and he really talked
about the need to take to task all the
people who are committing crimes and
using this incident to exploit it um and
to sabotage the issue um for their own
purposes. Um yeah, so national security
clearly top of mind for John Lee as we
look ahead to their legislative council
elections and of of course something
that Beijing will be watching very
closely as well. And interestingly, he
was questioned whether he should deserve
to stay on as chief executive, but he
didn't really answer that question as
well.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. And interesting as well in that in
that part of the press conference where
he was talking about national security
issues. That was the part that he broke
into English in his response as well. So
clearly sending that message quite wide.
But uh we'll leave it there. That was
our China correspondent, Mim Lo,
bringing us an update as we continue to
see uh Chief Executive John Lee
addressing the press there, answering
some questions, but giving an update on
on the latest on the investigations into
the Hong Kong fire from last week. So,
we'll have more ahead on the China show.
This is Bloomberg.
Quick check on markets this morning as
we head through the session. It's really
a very much a tech story. You've got the
the topics there or the tyex rather over
in Taiwan leading gains but also the
Cosby another exchange that's doing well
today up 1.7%. So it is a tech leg rally
but also sort of just returning I guess
some of that that bearish sentiment we
saw yesterday and just again a bit more
bullish but a reversal of sorts.
>> Yep. And uh you know we're focusing a
little bit more on China there. Of
course Jen has just revised its China
GDP growth forecast for next year to
4.5%
say that additional stimulus is
warranted if Beijing is to aim for 5%
again. Joining us now is Soft Chen's
head of research and chief APEC
economist. Um yeah we've certainly seen
the November numbers have been quite
soft here. Tell us about what's really
driving that upgraded forecast. Well,
it's mostly a function of the fact that
the uh trade has been quite resilient.
Of course, this is not only a China
story. It's a whole Asia, whole global
story actually. And there's a lot of
element that you know the AI capex boom
is lifting all boats in terms of Asia
exports.
>> So, China is actually benefiting from
that indirectly as part of that supply
chain. Um the other part is you know
there are still things really not
working in China. you know for example
housing it's actually falling at a
faster rate
>> however it's becoming smaller smaller
part of economy so even it's still
declining the drag is smaller and also
we see that the Chinese government um
now really have to step up on support of
course they actually have been stepping
up but they will have to continue on
this path
>> how then does it work in terms of the
the investment side as well because that
has been a bit sluggish this year do you
start to see a recovery next year and
what would be the driver for that do you
think
>> right the investment you know some of
the slowdown is actually for good reason
right it's something we want to see from
China for years which is they need to
constrain the supply uh expansion they
can't keep just occupying more and more
space in the manufacturing ward
>> temper the over capacity
>> exactly so so in a way it's it's uh it's
slow down for good reason uh the more
the more important question here is
whether the government will reallocate
this resource towards consumption
towards you know demand um that would
make the economic model more
sustainable. We definitely see the
willingness of course but um of course
we need to see more action.
>> Yeah. And people question why Beijing
hasn't put enough, you know, direct sort
of support to the consumption space. It
seems like it the tech focus has been
much more a priority, right? They're
putting a lot of resources into tech
sufficiency and the like
>> when you really could be putting that
capital into maybe boosting pensions,
for example.
>> At what point do you think that might
change? I think the the changes already
here right you look at the five-year
plan right there are very there are some
subtle changes in the warding which in
my view is actually quite important when
they talk about investment is no longer
about the size is about the appropriate
level being more focused on the frontier
technology on the things they really
need when they talk about consumption
they even mention the consumption share
that need to grow right so in a way the
focus has shifted I think you know the
the tech focus will be there but it's
it's it's not about more and more
capacity anymore. It's about the rising
the the most critical stuff.
>> Do you see then the the the goods trade
surplus changing at any time and do you
see that reflecting more of rebalancing
at all in the economy?
>> Most people are expecting a slowdown in
exports next year.
>> Yeah, I think it's bit inevitable given
how strong it has been. Right. Also, you
know, the tariff shock, it's it's it's
it's better than people expected, you
know, given the tariff level right now.
But nevertheless, this impact could
still be there and drag down some other
parts of the the the trade. But the
thing here is that uh I I think globally
we are going to see some rebalance in
terms of global trade surplus reducing
on China's side and deficit reducing on
the US side. It's going to be a very
gradual process. M
>> you you mentioned in your report slowly
emerging from the deflation trap.
>> Is it too soon to still call it
reflation? What what still needs to
happen for that to happen?
>> So you know the the one thing they've
chosen in terms of uh to you know b
battling this deflation is
anti-evolution right when you think
think about it. Yes indeed China needs
to do that reduce supply
>> and then the the missing part or the
part they need to do more is to support
the demand. Right? So we're seeing the
first part actually progressing f faster
than the second part which results in
this pattern of PPI recovering faster
than CPI right so what we need to see is
really genuinely more stimulus fiscal
support going to consumption going to
social spending which is starting but
needs to go faster
>> then we can see more really truly
reflection in the CPI space
>> so that's the fiscal side what about uh
monetary side what do we expect there
>> I think the monetary side the challenge
here is that the PB basically basically
cannot ease much further in terms of
lowering the short-term rates because of
you know the profit margin of the banks
and and the banks need to preserve
capacity to re to work off the the bad
debt in the system. Uh so so they are
pretty constrained. Uh if anything you
know you know this uh interest rate
subsidy to the mortgage potentially
could be announced is maybe the path to
go is more selective rate cuts in a way.
Yeah
>> we thanks very much for joining us this
morning. That was We Yao there, head of
research and chief economist for APAC at
Sockchen. And we do have much more
coming up, taking a look at what's
happening in the crypto space in
particular as we see a bit of recovery
coming through in Bitcoin prices this
morning, but a very significant sell off
and a lot of leverage bets also being
liquidated. But we'll have more ahead.
This is Bloomberg.
11:29 a.m. in Tokyo. Japanese markets
heading to that lunch break in just a
moment. You are seeing a recovery
underway when it comes to equities there
in Tokyo. We're up 4/10en of 1% for the
decade 225 here today. The yen also
strengthen almost 1% overnight. So,
we're coming off that just a little bit,
but we're still talking about 15563
levels here as well. Uh, the next event
risk is going to be that 10-year bond
auction due later on today, which I
think investors going to be eyeing very
closely just given the selloff that
we've seen when it comes to JGBs of
late, right? That 2-year yield uh is
still above that 1% level here. So,
certainly we're still around those 2008
levels as well. dollar yen. Obviously,
you know, just given the move that we've
seen as well as, you know, investors
start to really price in the possibility
that the BOJ is ready to hike in just
about two weeks time. Yeah, let's get
more on that outlook now specifically
for for JGBs and bring in our MI
strategist Mark Granth joining us this
morning from Singapore. And and Mark, I
really loved the way that you put this
in in your your column earlier today,
but talking a taking a look really about
this sort of following the script of a
horror story and and something that risk
becoming a global bond event as well,
but tell us why exactly you see that
happening possibly.
>> Well, I mean, the timing is very very
difficult. So you've had Governor Weda
setting up an interest rate hike for
this month which the Japanese
politicians today did not push back
against which is very important
especially the finance minister um she
said that policy is up to the bank of
Japan. So as far as investors and
traders are concerned it's pretty much a
done deal. We're more than 80% priced
for a rate hike in December. So
everything tells you that it's going
ahead. The problem from the bond
market's point of view is is not just
about Japan because the real interest
rates are still running extremely
negative. Even if the Bank of Japan
raises by 25 basis points and we get to
0.75%
on the official rate, that's still way
below the inflation rate, which has been
running around 3%ish for a long time in
Japan. So that doesn't help the the bond
market. And you can see the 30-year
yields reached a record high today since
they've been issued. So investors are
pretty skeptical. On top of that, you've
got the global situation, which doesn't
help Japan at all because it's been a
rocky start to the week for G10 bonds,
particularly because of heavy issuance
in America. Lots of corporates want to
get their bonds out of the way before
year end. Markets will dry up pretty
soon and they've still got lots of debt
to issue. So the whole thing is a very
negative cocktail. And the yen is not
helping either cuz by now you would have
thought after what UA said the UN would
be the yen would be much stronger. It's
still around 155. So traders are not
convinced.
>> Yeah. Can you tell I mean we just had
Fidelity on Tommy Tom mention you know
if if the Fed resumes its rate cutting
cycle and the BOJ does in some way start
hiking that there's a chance that dollar
yen could get to 140 next year.
How likely is that scenario do you think
here given what you just said that maybe
there is kind of limited movement for
the y to strengthen from here
>> for the for the yen to strengthen
significantly against the US dollar
somehow the bank of Japan would need to
signal that after they raise interest
rates assuming they do in December that
the next hike after that to take them
towards neutral rates is coming fairly
quickly. That has not been the case
under Governor WA. if they hike this
month. The last one was in January, so
that's like 11 months ago. That kind of
pace is not going to impress yen traders
at all. In fact, if you look at the
setup, the way the options market was
priced in January, it's almost exactly
the same now in December. Option traders
are not excited that the Bank of Japan
is going to do multiple interest rate
hikes. And that's what will be needed to
make the yen a much stronger currency.
Unless the BOJ can signal clearly that
it's going to get to neutral rates
quickly, then yen traders will just
shrug their shoulders and say, "Here we
go again, another long delay between
interest rate hikes." Something will
need to change quite dramatically. The
governor could signal that during his
press conference at the meeting he could
make a change of tone but so far that
has not been the way he operates.
>> Mark, thanks for joining us. That was
our Bloomberg Mive strategist Mark
Cranfield there in Singapore. And let's
take a look at at cryptocurrencies
because we were saying really yesterday
in the session it was that story of what
the the the BOJ was looking to do around
rates and then also it sort of morphed
that sell-off mood into the afternoon
with with fears around essentially moves
in the cryptocurrency space and we saw
quite a sharp selloff in in Bitcoin ETH
but also those alt tokens as well. So
you're seeing a bit of a price recovery
today or at least a stabilization but we
can get more on the outlook. Joining us
this morning is Gary Chu. executive
director at Hong Kong listed crypto
exchange OSL. So, so Gary, I mean, as
you watched that trading activity
yesterday afternoon, of course, we've
seen a lot of of of leverage bets being
liquidated really going back a couple of
months now, but what were you thinking?
>> So, I I guess the key theme here um from
a trader perspective and a markets
perspective, crypto is now a very very
um interconnected landscape, right? So,
so all the all the crypto traders, they
don't they don't just trade crypto. So,
what happens in so-called cryptoland um
typically has a has a huge ripple effect
throughout the the general financial
landscape. So, I think um you've already
mentioned it um deleveraging margin uh
and and things like margin calls
typically that means movement of capital
from one place to another. So on the one
hand we see assets like Bitcoin being
highly global price being generally we
we we see it as being highly transparent
but actually the liquidity pools are
highly fragmented. Yeah.
>> So what it means is people with exposure
to direct crypto for example through um
centralized exchanges um if there's
another event happening for example in
the equity markets that may have um um
uh some impact on some of the indirect
exposure then immediate reaction is to
move capital. So if if we look at sort
of the some of the the the more
interesting events like the micro
strategy news um yesterday then
immediately when traders have to react
that means they react in other places
not just the equity markets. So I I I
think it is totally not not unexpected
to see responses happening through the
ETFs. Um so I when you when you've got
sort of indirect exposure um but also in
the spot markets um but then also in the
any of the thematic stocks any of the
other players that potentially may have
sort of similar um uh may face similar
impact. So a lot of the stories we saw
in the last few months for example
regarding digital asset treasuries um I
think we have already seen some of the
impact on those stocks. Um so generally
I think the key theme is is sort of the
interconnectedness of of that capital.
>> How do you think cuz you mentioned that
that liquidity that looks fragmented and
a lot of that data that you get on
liquidation is also withheld from from
some key exchanges and so it makes it
very difficult to assess the leverage in
the system as well. How do you think
that that maybe obscurity or or or
non-transparency also creates fear in
the system as well?
>> Um well that's one way to look at it. I
mean the the if you if you're a trader
this is this is sort of like trader
heaven right. So, so you you you see you
see the ability to to take exposure in
whole whole range of different venues,
different mediums, direct, indirect, and
also leverage versus non-lever. Um, and
traders love that because the
fragmentation means uh the room for
arbitrage exists.
>> So, for example, where you've got
thematic stocks that potentially are um
are being impacted by an event, you can
take one position on the stock, you can
take another type of position on the
spot. Uh also and and we haven't even
mentioned the derivatives yet because
the derivatives derivatives and also the
the the um the leverage is where things
like margin calls also start to bite and
the margin calls are the things that
actually cause the very rapid responses
because you need to move capital very
very quickly
>> and um and the capital movement point is
is important when we when we look at the
broader digital asset landscape because
it's not just trading a few you know a
few day traders trading the occasional
BTC.
>> Yeah. It's actually the movement of
capital and how to move it and and it
used to be the case that you move from
one bank or one you know one broker to
another. Now it's also on offramp from
onchain to offchain.
>> So so and and that that you know that
brings in conversations like stable
coins why stable coins um as a as a
topic is also becoming so interesting
for the capital markets. Yeah
>> because it affects the movement of
capital. A lot of the has been around
what Michael Sailor has been doing with
strategy, right? This whole kind of
Bitcoin ho hoarding. You're wrapping
around with the public stock by
basically selling, you know, the stock.
>> A lot of retail investors were following
that whole Bitcoin experiment and buying
up a lot of these kind of strategy ETFs
and the like and are really getting hit
hard
>> right now.
>> What do you make of this sort of
controversial sort of way of of dealing
with Bitcoin in the public markets? Is
this sort of business model sustainable?
You think?
>> I think um depending on different points
in time. I think before um before
regulated exchanges became um widespread
and and basically a thing we don't talk
about anymore. Um giving giving Tratfi
some sort of channel to get asset
exposure probably was a good story. Um
and and so I think um I think a number
of years ago if we wind back the clock
that story was very very sexy.
>> Um because a lot of um financial
institutions um the option of allocating
assets to to uh to an asset class that
fell outside the investment spectrum was
was basically not even on the table. But
I think now that now that um as I said
um getting regulated direct exposure is
no longer difficult
>> getting indirect exposure via ETFs is I
mean it's it it using the word difficult
would be an overstatement. It is
basically something that you already do.
>> Then I think the the the DAT model um as
a lot of people try you know sort of
they gave it a fancy name. Um, I think I
think that model um potentially I think
will I think we'll see some evolution.
>> Where does that leave the price of
Bitcoin? I mean, we've seen 30% losses
since the highs that we saw in October.
>> Have you seen any signs of a bottom
being formed?
>> Look, I I I think in terms of um longer
view on on on that asset in particular,
I think generally investors actually are
are quite enthusiastic. Um um I mean we
we are seeing a lot of actions where um
the the market moves downwards and there
are plenty of takers.
>> So so I I I think generally as an as an
asset, not so much as an asset class,
but as an asset um I think I think a lot
of people are still holding um you know
a fairly sort of positive long-term
view.
>> All right, Gary, we'll leave it there,
but Gary, thank you. Gary too there,
executive director at OSL Group, joining
us here in Hong Kong studios. Uh, in
some of the corporate news this morning,
Bloomberg has learned [music] that
Warner Brothers Discovery has received a
mostly cash offer from Netflix as it
fields a second round of bids. Sources
say the offers are binding, which
[music] means the board can sign off on
a deal quickly if its goals are met.
Warner Brothers, the parent company of
HBO, CNN, and its namesake film studio,
officially put itself up for sale in
October after [music] receiving multiple
unsolicited offers for all or part of
the company. Airbus will inspect [music]
hundreds of its best-selling A320 jets
for potential quality flaws in the
aircraft's body, risking the company's
last ditch effort to meet its [music]
delivery target. According to materials
from a presentation seen by Bloomberg, a
total of 628 jets [music] contain panels
that may be either too thick or too thin
due to a manufacturing [music] issue at
a supplier. Of these 168 planes are
already in service with carriers and the
rest are at various stages of
production. And China's Deep Seek has
launched two new versions of an
experimental AI model. The company says
[music] Deepseek V3.2 matches the
performance of Open AI's flagship GPT5
across multiple reasoning benchmarks. It
also says a new product called Deepseek
[music] V3.2 to special focuses on
mathematical computations and matches
[music] the performance of Google's
latest Gemini 3 Pro. All right, we're
checking markets here right now. [music]
We are seeing when it comes to the
mainland a little bit of bifurcation
there when it comes to what you're
seeing onshore. Onshore selling off here
today, but Hangen seems to be on the
mend here. We're up about 190 points
also the initial highs uh from the open
now, but it seems like [music] tech is
seeing a bit of recovery there as well.
We're up half of 1%. This is Bloomberg.
[music]
In some world news this morning and a
survey shows that Chinese export
controls are forcing [music] European
companies to rethink how they operate.
The poll which was released by the EU
Chamber [music] of Commerce indicates
that about a third of European firms
plan to shift sourcing away [music] from
the mainland. One respondent also said
that China's curbs will result in
additional costs equivalent to around
20% of its global gross global global
revenue [music] rather this year.
Russian President Vladimir Putin [music]
has signed an order allowing visa-free
entry for most Chinese citizens. They're
now able to visit Russia for 30 [music]
days for business and tourism purposes.
Some categories, including journalists
and students, [music] still need visas.
Russia is also about to kick off its
first sale of yuan denominated sovereign
bonds. That's as ties [music] between
the two countries deepen.
We're watching shares of Chinese
Airlines this morning. That's after
[music] CCTV reported that over 40% of
planned flights from China to Japan in
December have been cancelled. According
to state [music] broadcaster or the
state broadcaster that totals over 1,900
flights sources earlier told Bloomberg
that Beijing had instructed Chinese
airlines to reduce the number [music] of
flights to Japan through March 2026. And
indeed today you are seeing stocks all
in the red by more than 2%. Yeah. And
certainly this lings to mind a lot of
what what's to come here if they're
talking about for for next year some of
those numbers as well. Um when you talk
about what Bloomberg opinion and what
they're saying here now uh Krishma
Bashmani has been talking about this and
really saying that President Trump's
peace plan for Ukraine will embolden
China over the Taiwan issue. Krishma now
joins us now from Singapore with more on
that piece. Uh you know many have tried
to kind of tie I guess the similarities
between Ukraine and Taiwan. Karishma how
do you think you know what lessons do
you think China can take from the Trump
administration's Ukraine peace plan?
Yeah, Ivonne, I think the first lesson
that uh China is sort of taking from the
administration's peace plan is that
everything is up for grabs, right? Like
when we first saw uh the sort of initial
details about what appeared to be quite
a vague peace plan for Ukraine from the
US, there was a lot of confusion about
where it was actually coming from, how
many points were in it. A and certainly
this week uh there is expected to be a
little bit more clarity but I think the
big takeaway from that certainly uh from
scholars and academics that I've been
speaking to was that China saw an
opportunity here in terms of the kinds
of concessions that it looked like
Washington was willing to give Moscow in
an attempt to come to some sort of peace
agreement. Now this is something that uh
has been expressed before the
relationship between Taiwan and Ukraine.
most notably of course by the former
Japanese prime minister Fumio Kushida
back in 2022 when he talked about the
fact that first Ukraine then East Asia
in a reference that many took to be the
kind of precarious situation that Taiwan
would could well find itself in if
bigger countries are allowed to uh go in
and sort of you know um find a way to
challenge the sovereignty of other
places and other territories. And I
think this is one of the key concerns
for Taiwan as it looks at what is
happening between Ukraine, Russia, and
the United States, but certainly opens a
window of opportunity for China.
Kurishma, we know of course the
long-term goal for Beijing, for Taiwan,
and that's reunification. But do you
think what's happening right now and
this prospect that we see a deal between
Ukraine and Russia changes uh Beijing's
calculations or maybe its timeline as
well?
>> I think that the timeline and the
calculations have always been pretty
clear. If you look at the white paper
that Beijing put out back in 2022 about
uh how it sees unification with Taiwan,
the uh line from the Chinese has always
been that this is part of the plan that
it's going to happen either through
peaceful means or by force. And it's a
very clear roadmap as to how this fits
into the national rejuvenation of the
Chinese nation. It's part of Cinping's
legacy making project. And I think what
we've seen in the leadup and certainly
in the run-up in the last few years is
that consistently the idea seems to be
to try and take Taiwan without having to
fire a shot. And what that means is, you
know, increasing the kinds of military
activities you see that the Chinese have
been doing around the island, but also
putting diplomatic pressure wherever
Beijing can do that. You've seen the
rhetoric against Japan in recent weeks.
Even with diplomatic allies that Taiwan
has left, there is that consistent
pressure. So I think that it doesn't
change the calculus so much as it allows
there to be an opportunity for China to
see how is the US going to manage this
peace plan with Ukraine and Russia and
what that could mean for Taiwan.
And this is also coming at a time when I
think President Trump is trying to seek
a better relationship with with China
here right now. Where does that leave
Taiwan? How has Taipei responded?
>> Well, in a really precarious position
and I would argue that it is in one of
its most dangerous positions that we've
seen in recent years. Now, what we've
seen from the Taiwanese president is an
announcement that there will be more
money spent on defense, something like
$40 billion. So I think that is a very
wise move. Of course uh the fact that it
has to go through a gridlocked a
politically gridlocked parliament is
going to be challenging for him. But it
is as much a message for Beijing as it
is for Washington. Uh President Donald
Trump has been ambiguous I think it's
fair to say about uh his position on
whether the United States would come to
Taiwan's defense. I think there is a lot
of concern in Taipei about this and I
think it's something that the Chinese
see as an opportunity to exploit as you
point out Ivonne uh what Trump seems to
be very keen on doing is cementing that
relationship with Cinping. There are
plans for both leaders to visit each
other's countries in 2026. And I think
that uh politicians in Taipei right now
are going to be looking at 2026 with a
great deal of trepidation and concern.
>> That was our Bloomberg opinion columnist
Gorishma Vaswani there. And on that
note, we do actually have a very big
interview coming up on Bloomberg as
well. We're going to be hearing
exclusively from Taiwan's foreign
minister. That's Lin Chia Lung with the
island as we were just discussing there
at the center [music] of this heated
diplomatic dispute between China and
Japan.
>> Before we go, we're going to check some
movers here this morning. We're checking
the EV space. So, some have come off
some of the initial lows as well, but
yeah, those November numbers were on the
softer side. That's why Xpunk NEO are
down some four to 5% here. Interesting
enough, BYD is bucking that trend. We're
up about 3 and a half% or more. Uh
despite the month-to-month numbers
looking weaker, [music] they talk about
the export side of things that still
look pretty strong according to city for
BYD. Take a look when it comes to of
course Korea. We're watching very
closely Samsung debuting its first
trifold months ahead of a folding iPhone
as well. So there [music] you go. The
stock is up 2 and a half%. Overall risk
appetite is coming back. So the AI trade
very much in focus here. That's why
you're seeing SK and Samsung up uh quite
a bit there. And that's lifting the cost
BT to see [music] back to around those
4,000 levels uh for Korea. So certainly
that is one thing to watch here as well.
Uh [music] this is Bloomberg.
>> I directed the effort [music] to make a
comprehensive and thorough
investigation. Next step in order to
prevent the same kind of tragedy from
[music] happening. I think we need
reform. I thought about partners we need
to take forward reform and the partners
I would definitely be legislative
council. They have all experienced the
fight. They understand the pain. They
will work with the government to
implement the reform together.
Chief Executive of Hong Kong, John Lee,
there speaking earlier about, you know,
the need for this independent inquiry in
the fire that killed 151 people. And
certainly that message of reform was
very much resonant in that press
briefing today. Yeah, absolutely. He
stressed that multiple times that
changes were needed, especially when
you've seen this death toll just
continuing to climb at 151 now. But we
actually are taking you here to some
live pictures. This is from a memorial
site in Taipo as the city continues to
mourn the victims and as well to support
the sur the survivors of this. Uh the
government as well confirming that the
upcoming ledge co- elections will go
ahead on December 7.